Welcome to this lecture on group by an aggregate functions with SPARK data frames GROUP BY allows you
to group browes together based off some column value.
For example you could group together sales data by the day the sale occurred or group repeat customer
data based off the name of the customer.
Once you performed that group by operation you can then use some sort of aggregate method or function
off of that data on an aggregate function does is it combines or aggregates multiple rows of data into
a single output.
An example would be taking the sum of a bunch of numerical inputs or counting the number of inputs etc..
Let's see some examples of this by playing an example dataset in Egypt or an output in this new book
I'm going save from PI spark sequel import a spark session and I will quickly create a spark session
so I can do this all with just tab autocomplete.
So let's go through that.
And we'll call this something like agues and then we'll say or create.
And then after this we're going to actually read some data.
So we'll say Sparke that read that CSFB and we'll be working with sales info CSC and I will also infer
the schema to be true.
And I also will declare that the header is true.
And Altes actually see what this data looks like.
So I can see you have a company column with the actual company logo or name Google Microsoft Facebook
Apple.
The person that works at that company and then their sales may be how much software they've sold to
customers.
And I can also check out the schema by saying print schema and I can see that I have two strings and
a double so only one numerical column and that's the sales column.
Now let's play around with actually grouping together so let's grouped together by the company column.
So I will say the math and I can do it by and then pass in the company or the actual name of the column
in this case it's company.
And if I run this I get back a group that grouped data object and actually shows you its location in
memory.
So often this grouped data object I can call a variety of methods and you can check out the link in
the lecture notebook so you can actually see a variety of methods available to you if you actually click
on the link.
Looks something like this or like this really and you can scroll down and see all the various functions
that are available to you.
But let's go back to the notebook for now.
And actually walk through some of the most common examples so I'll say the f group by company and then
I'm going to call mean and this will actually return to frame with company string and then average sales
so let's actually show the result.
And here I can see when you group it by company what the average sales are.
So Apple average Google average Facebook average etc. and let me walk through some of the most common
ones we can take the sum of all the sales per company.
Can also do things like Max and Min.
So what is the max sale.
What is the minimum sale.
Per company.
So you can see those examples there and you can even do things like count.
So how many rows are there per company.
So Apple has four employees in this state of frames.
If you come back here you can see Apple has four rows.
Facebook has to come back down here.
We can see that Facebook has to now there's a variety of methods that are available to you.
I just showed some of the most common ones you can definitely check out the link in the lecture notebook
that will show you the variety of methods you can call Offut group data object.
Now not all methods needed group by call.
Instead you could just call a generalized thought AGM method that will aggregate across all rows in
the data frame.
So what does that mean.
Maybe you don't actually need the group by Maybe you just want the sum of all sales.
You don't really care about something like per company so you can do that with the AG or that method
and that actually takes a really interesting argument and takes in a dictionary.
So the issue with that looks like we'll say DFA A.G. And then a dictionary will have the key be the
name of the column.
So in this case sales number one not doing group by we're just aggregating across everything.
And then we'll do something like some and then we'll say that show and now this returns the sum of all
the sales in the data frame.
So again we pass in the column that we want to aggregate and then the actual function we want to use
as a string.
So maybe I want the max sale.
So across every single row in that data from what actually happened there the max sale was 870.
So if we go back to our original we can see here that the highest sale was in fact a 70.
Now we could have also done this on a group by.
So if you end up liking the sort of dictionary syntax you can do that as well.
Let me show you how we can kind of achieve that effect so I'll create something like group underscore
data and I'll set the sequel to DMF the group by and I will group by company and then I'm going to run
that and then I'll grab that group data and I can call the AG Methot off that.
And then again pasan something like sales and then maybe Maxiell.
And this is going to be the exact same thing as if I just use that group by Max and there it is.
So this kind of nice because it allows you to if you're doing a for loop or something.
Insert keys or grab a dictionary from somewhere else etc..
So a little bit more of a generalized format than just calling something like if we go up here Doc count
or Max et cetera.
So again kind of a nice little format with this dictionary.
You can check out the various functions available for this in the lecture notebook.
Speaking of functions let's show you how you can import functions from Sparke.
So in order to do this you'll save from Paice spark thought sequel functions import and then you can
hit tab here and it will show you some various functions as you begin to scroll down here.
So we have things like concat core for correllation create map etc. and there's a lot of them more than
we actually need to go through here.
So throughout the course we'll show you the more important ones.
But I want to kind of go over some of these so we'll do count distinct EVGA for average and then CD
DV for standard deviation.
And what I can do these functions is combine them with a select call so I can say ADF that select in
whatever function I want in this case we'll do something like count distinct and then passen the column
that I want to apply it to just a string SALES
So what is actually doing when it returns.
Well it counts the distinct number of sales values.
So here we have 11.
And what does it actually look like.
So maybe I want to see a more clear example maybe average would be a little clearer.
Here we can see the average sales was three sixty point five E-3.
So this is more just the general way to grab a function import it.
And then when you called the select you can apply that function to whatever column you want and show
or collect the results.
We're going to be seeing a lot more of this later on especially when we deal with dates and time stamps
that sort of thing but just kind of get used to this format of a function from Paice spark that sequel
functions and you pass that in within a select call.
Now maybe you don't want this sort of notation of average sales.
In that case you can actually use what's known as an alias.
So inside of this select call you'll say alias and give this whatever column name you want so you can
call this I don't know average sales.
Maybe that's a little clearer to you.
And now when you show that you can see the alias name for that column has been displayed.
So it's kind of a nice little feature of that.
And finally let's deal with the standard deviation function because I want to show you how you can actually
format the data itself.
So I will say DFI select and let's select the standard deviation of the sales column and let's show
the result there.
So you don't notice that standard deviation has this kind of weird column name as PDV CMP sales and
then has a really long number there.
I mentioned before that you can actually format these things to look a little nicer.
Let me show you how you can actually do that.
You'll save from Paice spark that sequel that functions and the one we want is called format underscore
number.
So we'll import that.
And we're going to end up doing is passing in format number inside of that select call.
But we can do this in a couple of steps.
And I also want to fix this column name issue so let's do two things here.
I already selected the standard deviation of the sales column but there's two things I don't like.
I don't like this really long name and I don't like how many significant digits are here.
So I'm going to fix this in a couple of steps.
First I'll say sales SDD is equal to DSF select and I'm going to call standard deviation function on
my sales column.
But as we already showed I will give an alias of something simple like SDD And then when I want to do
is just show you the results there.
So here is a study for standard deviation show.
And there it is.
So I have this nice column name but I still have this number.
So now let's fix that.
So the fix that significant digits problem I can say the SDD dot and then I'm going to call select off
offer this and then I passen whoops with a lowercase format number and it takes in the name of the column
as the first argument.
In this case it's already been changed.
SDD.
And then as a second argument how many decimals you want to show.
So I just want to show two decimal places beyond that point and then say that show I run this and I
can see now I have format number acidy to 250 point 0 9.
So you can see here that I again had this issue of the alias actually have to call alias twice in order
to fix this or just wait until the very end to call Aliase kind of up to you.
So if we really want to fix this I can call Aliase and then say something like.
Final.
Again I could just call SDD.
So we run that.
And then this gives me kind of this nice result as Saidy 250 points or nine.
Much nicer than what I had up here.
So we called Aliase twice.
You could've just called Aliase once and kind of skipped this step.
Would would've had to change the name here.
SDD to match up this kind of a longer column title.
So kind of up to you or how you actually want to approach that.
Now let's finally discuss how you can order and sort things.
It's actually really easy to just use ORDER BY.
So we come up to the state of frameless sure that data from one more time.
So the data frame has this company the person and sales but let's try to sort things by that sales column.
Right now it's kind of jumbled and mixed up.
So they're put together by company.
But if I want to order it it's no problem.
I can just use the order by and then passing the column I WANT TO ORDER BY.
So in this case an order by sales and let's show the results there in here.
I've ordered from the lowest sales number all the way to the highest sales number.
So this goes in ascending order based off the sales column.
So just a simple order by if you want to call descending.
Well that's a little more complicated but not so bad.
You have to say.
ORDER BY and then you pass in the actual column not just the column name you'll say DLF sales and then
off of this column you'll say dot D E S C close parentheses and then show the results of this.
So it's a little bit of a weird format but that's the way it works.
If SPARC data frames and now I can see I have a descending value so goes from 870 all the way to the
lowest.
So you can kind of compare these two methods so let's kind of show them both in screening and a copy
and paste this and show them both to you at same time.
So this is for ascending order this very first one and the second bottom one is for the ascending order.
So for ascending which is the default all you have to do is pass in the string for the column name for
descending.
A little more complicated you have to passen the column itself using that sort of index call and then
called DGSE.
All right those are the basics about using group by an aggregate functions as well as using order by
and sorting your data.
Thanks and I'll see you at the next lecture.